So, let's make another file.
So make another file called friends, and
we're gonna chmod +x friends,
and then we're gonna vi friends.
And then I'm gonna put in here /bin/bash.
And then I'm gonna write and
quit and open that again, so
this is open now in bash mode.
And I'm gonna say friends= and
I'm gonna put a parenthesis there,
which is how you signify to bash
that I'm about to create an array.
And then I'm gonna put Kyle, Mark, Jim,
and I'm gonna put my name in quotes
"Brian Holt" cuz I wanna put my full
name in there and Sarah, like that.
So this is how you do an array,
the parentheses and
then you just put spaces between them.
And if you wanna have something that
has a space in it like Brian Holt,
you just put that inside of quotes.
And then the way you access that is
you say echo My second friend is,
and you put dollar sign and
then curly brace, friends,
and then you do square bracket 1,
like that.
So it's all be the first event using
arrays and bash it's a little clumsy in
terms of like the how it looks but
that's how you do it, right there.
And then let's do a for-loop, so
we're gonna say for
friend in $friends, and
then you have to tell it how much
of friends that you want and
I want all of it so
I'm gonna put star in there, like that.
And that will give me all
of the friends and friend.
Then you have to tell it to do something,
so I'm gonna say do,
Echo friend; friends like this.
So that will refer to this friend
because it's gonna do like a for
in loop,
those exist in JavaScript as well.
So I'm sure many of you
have probably seen that.
And then after you do that,
you just say I'm done, like that.
And then here,
if you wanna get the length of an array,
this is again, super odd as I have a list.
Yeah, I have dollar sign curly and
then you put a pound or
hash friends and
then you have to tell how much of friends
that you want the link to,
so I want all of them.
Friends, like that.
And those quotes are probably optional.
So as you can see,
a kind of a clumsy way of doing arrays.
The way that it works underneath the hood
is even more clumsy in my opinion.
It's actually like converting them
to strings and back to arrays and
in odd ways, but
that's actually how you end up doing it.
So let's make sure that this runs,
friends, there you go.
So my second friend is Mark,
which is expect.
This looped over and
printed all of my friends.
You can see it actually split even
Brian Holt apart, Which is fun.
And then it says I have 5 friends.
Yeah, and there is a way to
not split Brian Hold apart.
The questions I can't remember exactly
off the top of my head how to do it.
But suffice to say that
that is a possibility.
But it's actually only storing
five things in the array.
So like for example,
if I vi in that again.
I think if I accessed, this would be 0123.
See what it says if I do that?
Yeah, so it does actually give
you that holistically as that.
But the for in loop is actually
breaking that part by the space.
It's kind of wild, right?
So I'll just throw out there.
I am typically not creating and destroying
arrays when I'm creating bash scripts,
it's not something that's
typically I need to do.
I'll consume other programs that use
arrays but not necessarily myself.
Okay, let's make one more.
We're gonna do a while loop and there
are more types of loops just as you might
imagine, there's like do loops and
other things.
Just gonna show you two of them and
the other one I'm gonna
show you is a while loop.
And then if you need a different sort
of loop, feel free to go look for them.
So let's make another one called guess.
And let's actually touch
guests chmod +x guests and
vi guess and we'll insert our
hash bang in bash, right quit and
oops, now we can write this.
So, the first thing we create is
a number to guess, num to guess.
I'm gonna create this variable.
And then we're going to do dollar
sign parentheses, parentheses.
Dollar sign random, which $random
is always gonna be a random number
between zero and things like 32,000 or
something like that.
It's like 2 to the 12th divided by 2 or
something like that,
that's some specific number like that.
$random and then you can do modulus 10 cuz
we want it to be between 0 and 9, right,
which is what the modular does, it's
like the remainder of a division, right?
You've probably seen
that in other languages.
And then after you do that, we're gonna do
+ 1 cuzwe want it to be between 1 and 10.
Let's talk about the double
parentheses for just a second.
Do you remember like when we were
doing the if statements that
converts that to test
the double parentheses
with the dollar sign converts to,
which one is it, let.
It converts to another program called let,
and let let's you do basic arithmetic.
So when you do these double parentheses,
it's like, hey, I'm about to do some math.
And you're gonna give it some numbers and
then expect some number back from it.
So that's what this is doing this
versatile to a let which allows you to do
modulus.
Because modulus does not typically work or
not not modulus, modular.
Modular does not work in bash script,
you have to pass it to let and
then get that number back.
Okay, so suffice it says after
this num to guest is gonna be
a random number between 1 and 10.
Then we're gonna get a guest, Num.
And that's gonna be initially equal to 0,
which is gonna be outside
of the possibility.
When I say echo guests
a number between 1 and 10.
And then I'm gonna say, while,
$NUM_TO_GUESS is not equal
to, GUESSED_,
NUM, Do, Read -p your
guess, GUESS_NUM.
Done, then after they're done,
they're gonna say you got it.
All right, so let's break this
down just kind of bit by bit.
Number guess, this is gonna be some
random number between 1 and 10.
This isn't gonna change, this is only
get set once at the very beginning.
And then guess number is 0,
which is not a number between 1 and 10.
Okay, then we're gonna
echo guess a number.
And the first time this runs, obviously
zeros outside of the boundaries, so
it's always gonna run at least once, okay?
And then this square bracket
notation should look familiar too,
this is also works with test,
right, so the same with it.
If statement works, this also works for
while loops as well.
So this is going to test every
single loop is the statement true.
And then eventually, when num guess
is equal to guessed num when they've
actually guessed the number correctly,
this is gonna be false and
it's gonna break out of the loop,
that makes sense?
Okay, and then here in the middle, we're
gonna be reading from the user, numbers.
It's gonna pause here until this happens,
and
then it's gonna run the loop again if
they don't guess the correct number.
Eventually, this is gonna finish once
they guess they correct number, and
it's gonna echo, you got it,
and then it's gonna be done.
So let's see if it works.
Guess, so
it gets a number between 1 and 10,
1, 2, 3, 4, the answer's 4.
That one's a little bit more opaque.
So I'm just gonna make
sure that we got it.
This read statement here is gonna pause.
It pauses the execution of the entire
bash script until it happens, right,
which is why this doesn't
keep looping indefinitely.
But as long as you did not
guess the correct number,
this would loop indefinitely.
It loops until this is not true.
Here on this line, why is there
no dollar sign for GUESSED_NUM?
And the reason why,
you're giving guess num to read.
So this is actually an argument
that's being fed into read and
then read is using that to set
a variable for you, right?
If I put the dollar sign guess num,
what would happen?
It would actually put zero here.
So the thing that read would receive would
be 0, it would be the value of this.
So cuz whenever you do the dollar sign
there, bash is gonna go and replace it for
you before it gets made
fed into the program.
We don't want the value of guess num, we
wanna string guests num fed into read so
that it can set that variable for us.
Does that make sense?
Yeah, that's a great question.